the positive feedback the reassurance is
going to come from the outside world but
unless you attend to the outside world
if your attention is focused on the
inside then all you're going to
experience is the cringe over and over
and over and over and over again
i find everything cringy
so i'm finding everything in life cringy
my attempts at conversations just make
me feel cringy seeing others
conversate is cringy seeing everything
in social media is cringy people around
me make me cringe and i try to avoid
being around when i want to make friends
it makes me feel like everyone is trying
too hard and are just corny especially
when the conversations are just random
nonsense
i feel like this is holding me back from
engaging and making me feel like a bad
guy even when i play multiplayer games i
cringe at anyone using meta weapons just
trying too hard
in my head right now i understand why
anyone would do what they do and of
course they need to use meta to secure
the dub but when i'm in the moment i
just find myself cringing at everything
necessary in life any tips or
explanations on this i would severely
appreciate
fantastic post
okay
so
let's try to understand this is going to
be like kind of like an internal answer
to this so if
you're concerned that things are too
cringy and you think you yourself are
cringy and that other people are cringy
we're gonna approach this in two angles
one is we're gonna talk like internally
where cringe comes from and we're gonna
talk about externally like what it means
to actually be cringy okay
so the first thing to understand is that
cringe is essentially a judgment
right so if you if you label something
as cringy that is a judgment you are
making on something else
so if you want to be less like if you
think the world is way too cringy this
is actually a problem of your mind
judging too harshly
now i'm not quite sure exactly why this
person thinks everything is cringe where
that judgment comes from but if we think
about what
capacity of the mind what part of the
mind labels things that's cringe it's
essentially a judgment
so in terms of social interaction
sometimes we have difficulty interacting
with other people because we feel we are
cringy
right this part the person didn't
explicitly say that but i sort of maybe
they did
but i'm sort of getting the sense that
they have difficulty interacting with
other people because they feel that they
are cringe because in turn they think
everyone else is cringe and everything
is cringe
so
this is the the challenge is that i i
think if you're
how can i say this the first thing to
understand is that
if your mind is like wait thinking about
cringe too much you're not actually
attuning to the outside world
so the process of labeling something is
cringe the process of believing that you
yourself are cringe
is actually a judgment that you're
carrying on in here right so you're like
you're playing this whole script in here
like judging that you're like oh my god
that's so cringe like you're not 100
paying attention to the conversation
you're not absorbed in the conversation
you're busy criticizing the conversation
thinking about the conversation you're
thinking about the conversation right
you're on almost on a meta level instead
of participating in the thing you're
commenting about the thing
so for example if i eat a piece of food
and i enjoy the food
or i can be critical of the food and the
more critical i am of the food the less
i'm able to enjoy it because my mind is
not attending to the outside world my
mind's attention is on the internal
world and a judgment that i'm making
so this is kind of the interesting thing
is that like the negative energy in your
mind will continue to cycle this is why
this person finds everything cringe
because their mind is in such a
judgmental mode
that all it knows how to do is like
judge so it's like judging mcjuggerson
so everything that happens i'm going to
judge it i'm going to judge it i'm going
to judge it i'm going to judge it so the
first question is how do you stop doing
that right so like
if my mind is in a highly judgmental
mode
there are a couple of things that could
be going on
the first is that you learned this from
somewhere
okay
so if you learned it from somewhere that
mean like maybe you were judged a lot
growing up or like you're very very
sensitive to judgment or you grew up
with a parent who was constantly judging
you therefore your mind started to learn
how to be very judgmental towards other
people
so you need to connect those dots and
then you start to realize oh actually
this isn't like me actually thinking
this is cringe this is my mind's
conditioning labeling everything around
me is like insufficient in some way
right so that's the first question is
like where did you learn to become so
judgmental
second thing you can do is start to
externalize
so if you find yourself being like super
judgmental instead of like thinking
those thoughts and being trapped up here
try to absorb yourself in the experience
of whatever you're doing so if you're
talking to someone actually like stop
and listen to them right instead of
judging what they say like try to
understand what they say
try to understand where does this person
come from even if i think it's cringe
where's it coming from
for yourself too if you're if you're
judging yourself and you think you are
cringe
notice that that too is internally
focused right your attention is not
pointed towards the outside when you
speak words
you are not attending to that person's
response you are just caught up with how
your words could be perceived so instead
of actually paying attention to how your
words are perceived
you're filled up in your mind with how
they could be perceived and how cringe
it could be
so i want you to just notice that like
if you think you are cringy and you have
a lot of crippling social anxiety notice
that you're not actually paying
attention to the outside world you're
just in your own head
and this is why it can be so crippling
because the positive feedback the
reassurance is never going to come from
your head
the positive feedback the reassurance is
going to come from the outside world but
unless you attend to the outside world
if your attention is focused on the
inside then all you're going to
experience is the cringe over and over
and over and over and over again
does that make sense and these people
feel stuck because the very solution
they need the medicine that they need is
not inside it's on the outside but their
mind keeps on focusing on their internal
thought process
okay does that make sense
so
cringe is born of judgment the judging
part of the mind the monus
so you can try to think a little bit
about where you learned how to be so
judgmental why you are so judgmental and
the solution is going to be actually
attending to external stimuli so really
listen to what someone else is saying
even if you think what you're saying is
cringe
you're thinking that in your head
whereas you need to pay attention to the
facial expressions of other people
what do they think
okay are they enjoying the conversation
try to like pay attention to the actual
conversation y'all are talking about
something who cares how it's received or
not received just have the conversation
so switch your your attention externally
now this conversation would not be
complete without actually talking about
cringe
so here's the thing
how do you know if you're actually being
cringy
so cringe
in my opinion if i were to define it
what is cringe and what is not cringe
cringe is forcing someone into an
interaction
so it is like super super cringe is like
forcing something okay so i'll give you
all an example like hitting on your
waitress is cringe hitting on your
waiter is cringe
why because like they don't have a
choice
right like who's the cringiest person
like your grabby uncle at the holidays
grabby uncle comes over to you and is
like starts grabbing you and it's like
you can't what's cringe is like you
can't really say no
like it's not like a clear problem like
it's not like a violation it's not like
an assault
it's not like something that you can go
to jail for but it's something that's
forced and people aren't given a choice
to like interact with you or not that's
what's cringe
right so like if you're
a gamer and then someone on voice chat
is female and their genitals are
different
like forcing an interaction with them is
cringe if you're in an anime convention
and there is a woman there
and she is wearing a shirt of an anime
that you like
going over and talking to her not cringe
at all
not paying attention to her signals and
persisting in a conversation with her is
cringe
so forcing an interaction is cringe
right
like that's the definition of cringe so
if you all want to learn like how do i
actually be so the first part was like
you think you're cringy in your head but
you may not be cringy at all
actually being cringy is one very very
very very simple thing
which is do i force interactions on
other people and if the answer to that
is yes you are being cringy
so this is like chain texting someone
who's not responding back to you that is
cringe you're forcing them in into an
interaction
so if someone has an escape route
if someone does not have to interact
with you and they choose to interact
with you then you are not being cringed
okay so if you guys are trying to figure
out what cringe is am i forcing people
in their interactions
am i letting people go if they want to
go then i'm not being cringed because
that's totally cool it's like volitional
like don't worry about it don't sweat it
so just ask yourself this question am i
forcing someone into an interaction
because this is what's going to happen a
lot of y'all that are concerned about
being cringe
are going to discover actually i'm not
being cringed because i came over we're
at a party i sat down they sat down
we're talking for a little bit they've
had ample opportunity to leave and they
haven't left yet so i'm not being
cringed totally cool totally fine not a
big deal
on the flip side
this is gonna be scary because a lot of
y'all are cringe
and you don't realize your cringe
because you haven't really thought a
little bit about the way you're forcing
people in into interactions
you're not really thinking about the
passive aggressive crap that you do
to get people to interact with you
right
like like when someone else is
compassionate
and then they don't respond to your text
message and then you like threaten
self-harm because they're not responding
that is cringe
you're forcing them into an interaction
right you're emotionally manipulative
so unfortunately this happens all the
time
happens with random people on the
internet happens in families
happens when parents do it right when
they guilt trip you into coming for the
holidays like that's cringe they're
forcing an interaction on you
so you really need to think long and
hard are you forcing interactions on
people are you letting people leave
gracefully or do they have to like push
you away because that's what happens
when someone is cringe right like the
person who's on the receiving end of the
cringe has one of two options they can
escalate to the point of being somewhat
inappropriate and they [ __ ] hate
doing doing that because then they seem
crazy
right it's like if someone comes over to
you and is like sexually suggested but
never says anything wrong and then
you're like dude just get away from me
it's like the other person's like what
you're overreacting i didn't say
anything
and then you feel like an idiot because
you're like yeah like you didn't
actually say anything
but you implied like way too much crap
for me to be comfortable with so you
like force people this is what cringe
people do they like figure this out they
figure out like what's the what's that
sweet gray zone where like they don't
clearly
warrant a rejection
but they're like like i'm in the
uncomfortable face this phase right like
i'm in i'm like kind of right in the mid
on the border to that boundary
so you got to be super careful if you
were cringe
ask yourself this question do i let
people leave the interaction gracefully
or do they punish them for
leaving then you could be cringe
questions
about cringe
uh so the line between cringe and toxic
so toxic tends to be like damaging i
don't know that cringe is necessarily
talk toxic
so you can have people who are not
cringe and toxic and people who are
cringe and not toxic there's like
somewhat relatively harmless people now
it gets blurry because oftentimes when
you set a boundary with someone who is
cringe they will become toxic
so once like they're like kind of like
you know
uncle billy is like touching you a
little bit too much
and then you're like uncle billy please
stop touching me and then uncle billy's
like what the hell is wrong with you i'm
your uncle
like what do you think pervert that's
toxicity so sometimes when you reject
someone who's being cringe
they will manifest toxicity towards you
right
questions
no it doesn't even have to be like
molesting by the way it's just like
some people are just touchy and you're
just not comfortable with that you know
it doesn't have to be like sexual it's
just
i had an uncle would like to hold my
elbow
when talking to them they'd like shake
my hand and hold my elbow and they'd
like just hold the elbow it's like weird
okay
so one person is asking so the more
you're attached to people or things the
more cringe you are sort of so the whole
point of cringe is that there's a
discrepancy between how into their face
you are and how much license you have to
be in their face
so for example like
when you when you're married right like
there's some some interactions which are
not cringe because they're like
acceptable given the level of your
relationship
so there are things that
you know
like
that would be cringe in a different
relationship but in a marriage like
things are you're allowed to have like
more interactions right so it's like i'm
gonna be around every day for example
like like my wife is gonna be around
every day like we live in the same house
whereas if someone else was like showing
up that i wasn't married to and was
around every day like that would be kind
of cringe and like forcing interactions
does that make sense
so the more you're in a relationship the
more
cringe behaviors in a sense i mean they
shouldn't be cringe but the the
the forced
moves a little bit
right because there's going to be like
more stuff that's like acceptable to do
good question
marriage sleek less cringe
yeah so dr k
you can take
you can take it too far the other way
and appear cold how do you stop that
absolutely
so
forcing interactions is cringe and then
like being cold is like not having
enough interaction so how do you stop
that the answer is actually the same
so when you're cold
chances are you're still thinking a lot
about how the interaction is going to go
and you're just airing on the side of
being like enclosed so we see this a lot
with people who are socially anxious
where they'll like kind of come across
as like cold because they're afraid of
overstepping
right so they don't want to be like
so they end up like just kind of being
in their own head and the more you're in
your own head the colder you're gonna be
the more removed you're gonna appear to
other people because you're not like
empathically interacting with them
you're not attending to their facial
expressions their words things like that
so the more stuck you are in your own
head paradoxically you can appear both
cringe and
you can appear cold
okay
can you grow to find cringy things
that's not cringe absolutely
so if we're talking about the internal
side remember that cringe is essentially
a judgment of the mind right
so as we become
less judgmental we can start to
appreciate things that like other people
will regard as cringe so like i'll give
you just a simple example so let's say
that
i really
there's someone who's dancing
at a wedding who really doesn't know how
to dance in watching them a lot of
people like oh my god that's so cringe
whereas like if you're non-judgmental
you're like hey like that person doesn't
know how to dance but man they're they
seem to be having a fantastic time that
is awesome i'm so happy for them
even though they're like really don't
know how to dance everyone else is like
right you can be like cool
person is is just enjoying themselves
fantastic
right it's okay
they don't have to be perfect answers
is there a meditation for cringe we're
gonna try to make one up right now let
me think about this
yeah so i think what we're gonna have to
do
yeah okay i've got a meditation for
y'all
y'all are so screwed
okay
so this meditation is going to be a
little bit different
all right
this is what we're going to do
you guys want a meditation for cringe so
remember understanding
cringe
let's just so like our solution is going
to be understanding stuff right so what
i'm gonna do
i'm gonna put on headphones and i'm
gonna start listening to some music
and while i listen to the music i'm
going to
just vibe with it
on the internet i have no sense of
rhythm so dr k is super bad at this kind
of thing i'm just going to listen to my
music and i'm going to vibe with it
y'all aren't going to be able to hear it
because what i want you to do is vibe
with your own music right so turn on
some music and just vibe and people are
saying oh my god no no no no no can you
feel the cringe coming up and then we're
gonna sit with that sensation
okay
and everyone's like oh my god no no no
no no no no don't do it don't do it
right so you feel that cringe arising
so this is how we're gonna master the
sensation of cringe we're gonna evoke it
learn how to tolerate it right like
we're gonna like let it be there we're
gonna let it wash through us and then
we're gonna be like okay at the end
okay
all right so i'm gonna put this on i'm
gonna start vibing
okay
that's great
i feel so embarrassed
it's so hard oh my god what have i got
myself into okay let's go
i can feel that cringe coming up
feel that cringe
feel it
feel how idiotic you feel
and now listen to the music take a deep
breath
feel the racing of your heart
so now i'm feeling like i need to move
my body more
and that makes me feel more cringe but
we're gonna move move
[Music]
enjoy the music
right
so
feel it
now
let the whole world judge you but you're
going to enjoy this moment
breathe
listen to the music
big deep breath
all right my song ended too
wasn't that great
so people are wondering
meditation for cringe
so you feel so damn cringe when you're
doing like all these people are walked
watching you like i don't know how to
dance like what are they gonna think but
just like focus on the sensation right
like don't focus on the cringe you're
gonna feel it
you're gonna feel it oh my god it feels
so bad
and then as you externalize to the sound
of the music as you let yourself getting
caught up in the music and out of your
mind you'll start to feel better you can
use the breath as a tool so big deep
breath let it
and move you know feel that movement
feel that music take a big big deep
breath in and then breathe out
now everyone's wondering what did i
listen to
so i'm debating about whether that's an
important part
of this or not right so like if you guys
are thinking about what i listen to
why is that important
the question is what are you going to
listen to
right
i can i have i think my
playlists are public
okay
so that's phase one of the practice all
right that's just phase one now
you're gonna notice those feelings of
cringe the more that you get into the
music
the more
you're going to
be okay with the cringe this is still
playing okay
so that's phase number one
so breathe into it get used to it you
can do it on your own if you want to
next thing that you're we're gonna do is
we're actually gonna do it in front of
other people so you're gonna go to a
public place phase two of the practice
put on your headphones go to a park
start
jamming out other people are gonna see
you you're gonna feel super cringe
oh my god
but what's i don't know you guys think
i'm done no no no whoa whoa we're just
getting started dude
right so you're going to go into a
public place
and you're going to jam out to your
music because here's the cool thing
you're going to discover something
awesome is that you can enjoy that song
just as much if there are other people
around
right no no no no no no no you guys want
to learn real meditation right don't you
want to learn like real meditation so
now that we've practiced at home we're
going to do this three times at home
we're going to go out to public we're
going to walk down the street we're
going to jam to our music
we're gonna jam
you know people are gonna be looking at
us you're gonna look at you're gonna
phase three you ready for you ready for
this phase three
you like you're gonna be jamming out
you're gonna make eye contact with
someone you'll be like yeah what's up
you're gonna be like
and just walk right past
eye contact
pump the shoulders and move right past
that's it that's it y'all got me
right that's what we're gonna do so
phase three you're like you're gonna
acknowledge to other people like i know
you see me i see you i'm vibing having
the time of my life that's how it is
hi hi dancing juice
not right now
thank you you're open
all right
that's phase three so if you guys really
want to overcome cringe if people are
saying like okay how do i overcome
cringe this is meditation to do it so
you're gonna use your tools of
meditation grounding yourself in the
breath do practices at home right so you
should do naughty shodana and like ohm
chanting and all that crap
and then let yourself get lost in the
music focus all of your attention on the
music feel the music let it come out
through your body
do it at home first you're going to feel
a little bit cringe you're going to
breathe your way through it next you're
going to do it in public you're going to
feel even more cringe but now you've
practiced you've lifted those light
weights so now this is a heavier weight
but you're going to be ready for it your
mind is going to be ready for it you're
going to feel terrible and then
something magical is gonna happen as you
work through that cringe you're gonna
feel amazing
because now the other the opinions of
other people are no longer holding you
back you're not dictating your life
based on what other people think because
dictating your life based on what other
people think is a terrible way to live
life
you're gonna be you
and that's totally fine you're
completely comfortable with it
side effect building confidence
three
can you can sit on a park bench you can
close your eyes for phase two you just
vibe a little bit people can walk by
they can judge you a little bit let them
judge you
phase three
eyes open baby walking down the street
make eye contact
right that's what that's what we're
going to do you're going to smile at
people and you're going to move on
right you're not going to force any kind
of interaction you're not going to talk
to him because here's the thing
there's some crazy dumb ass who's
listening to music jamming out looks at
you smiles and nods their head who do
you think is more embarrassed
who do you think is like
like other people can't handle that but
they're gonna i guarantee you will make
someone's day they won't even understand
what the hell is going on and you will
make their day because for a moment
they're going to feel embarrassed
they're going to feel accepted they're
going to feel like this guy's such an
idiot but they're so like it's just like
pure positive energy
it's amazing
you guys get that
like
this is this
is
back when while dr k walked the streets
of boston sometimes a while dr k would
do this to people
right you're just going to live your
life you're going to look at other
people you're going to make contact
you're going to smile you're going to do
your thing you're going to move on and
for that moment in time i can guarantee
you
i can guarantee you that in that moment
in time it there will be like a moment
of happiness for another human being
like this person's so crazy but in that
moment they will forget about their
student loans they will forget about
their breakup they will forget about you
know
how they need to study for their tests
for one moment in time you will give
them such a gift
and then you're just gonna move on with
your life they're gonna be like what the
hell was that i don't even know you're
gonna leave like what the
and that's it that's phase number three
okay this is a meditation for cringe
who are we rating chat
this has been such a painful idea to
think about what the hell that's the
whole point
it's a meditation on cringe like what do
you think we're going to be
academic about it and be like hey my god
this is cringe
this is the natures of cringe this is
how we classify the cringe there are
three attributes of cringe there's this
funds this one's then your mind is like
oh yeah okay cool i understand cringe
now great
i'm more knowledgeable
good job me
no we have to like
live it right so meditation is about
experience that is what the real self is
to feel that cringe within you and work
through it as opposed to like armchair
quarterbacking i'ma watch a youtube
video about cringe and then i'm gonna
watch 10 more but i'm never gonna
actually face the emotions inside me and
never gonna adjust my behavior instead i
will watch youtube videos instead of
making alterations to my life
no
feel the cringe on your skin absolutely
live it embrace it work your way through
it and then be free of it
you